>> Brown: AFTER ISRAEL'S
REPORTED WEEKEND AIR STRIKES IN
AND AROUND DAMASCUS, MORE
QUESTIONS AS TO WHETHER THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR IS WIDENING
BEYOND ITS BORDERS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
EXPLORE THE OPTIONS ON THE TABLE
FOR THE U.S., AMID GROWING CALLS
FOR INTERNATIONAL INTERVENTION
IN SYRIA.
>> Brown: THEN, AS THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT WEIGHS NEW
REGULATION, WE DEBATE WHETHER
PUBLICLY TRADED COMPANIES SHOULD
HAVE TO DISCLOSE THEIR POLITICAL
DONATIONS.
>> Suarez: SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JOHN TULENKO VISITS A MIDDLE
SCHOOL IN MAINE WHERE STUDENTS
ARE TRADING IN THEIR NOTEBOOKS
AND PENCILS FOR ROBOTS AND WIND
TURBINES.
>> Brown: WE TURN AGAIN TO THE
SUBJECT OF GUNS IN AMERICA, AS A
TEXAS MAN PROVES TECHNOLOGY HAS
MADE IT POSSIBLE TO EASILY MAKE
YOUR OWN PISTOL AT HOME.
>> ANYONE CAN CREATE IT IN THE
PRIVACY OF THEIR GARAGE WITH A
COUPLE OF CLICKS AND SOME
SOFTWARE AND A DOWNLOAD FROM THE
INTERNET.
ANYWHERE THERE'S A COMPUTER AND
AN INTERNET CONNECTION, THERE'S
A PROMISE OF A GUN.
>> Suarez: AND WE CLOSE WITH A
REPORT ON POLAND'S EMBRACE OF
FRACKING, DESPITE CONCERNS FROM
SOME RESIDENTS ABOUT LAND RIGHTS
AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: ISRAEL TODAY PLAYED
DOWN A WEEKEND OF AIR STRIKES
THAT HIT SYRIA.
THE SYRIANS, IN TURN, THREATENED
TO STRIKE BACK, BUT THERE WERE
NO SIGNS OF NEW HOSTILITIES IN
THE OFFING.
ON SYRIAN STATE TELEVISION
TODAY, IMAGES OF THE SMOLDERING
REMAINS OF A MILITARY COMPLEX
NEAR DAMASCUS.
IT WAS HIT EARLY SUNDAY BY AIR
STRIKES ATTRIBUTED TO THE
ISRAELI MILITARY, THE SECOND IN
THREE DAYS.
ISRAEL DID NOT OFFICIALLY CLAIM
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT SENIOR
OFFICIALS THERE SAID THE TARGETS
WERE ADVANCED IRANIAN MISSILES
BEING SHIFT TO HEZBOLLAH
MILITANTS IN LEBANON.
ISRAELI LEADERS WARNED AGAIN
SUNDAY THAT HEZ BOL MUST NOT
OBTAIN GAME-CHANGING WEAPONS.
>> IT'S VITAL FOR THE SECURITY
AND THE STABILITY OF THE MIDDLE
EAST THAT NO WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTI WILONL SPILL OVER TO
THE HANDS OF TERROR
ORGANIZATIONS.
>> Brown: SIMILAR ISRAELI STRIKE
LAST JANUARY APPARENTLY TARGETED
ANTIAIRCRAFT MISSILES THAT WERE
BEING SHIPPED TO HEZBOLLAH.
>> FIRST OF ALL...
Brown: ON SATURDAY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA TOLD TELEMUNDO THAT ISRAEL
HAS THE RIGHT TO PROTECT ITSELF.
>> I'LL LET THE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT CONFIRM OR DENY
WHATEVER STRIKES THEY'VE TAKEN.
WHAT I HAVE SAID IN THE PAST --
AND I CONTINUE TO BELIEVE
THIS -- IS THAT THE ISRAELIS
JUSTIFIABLY HAVE TO GUARD
AGAINST THE TRANSFER OF ADVANCED
WEAPONRY TO TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE HEZBOLLAH.
>> Brown: THE ISRAELIS HAVE
INSISTED THEY ARE NOT TAKING
SIDES IN THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR,
BUT THE REGIME OF PRESIDENT
ASSAD CONDEMNED THE LATEST
ATTACKS.
>> THE ISRAELI INVADERS
COMMITTED A BLATANT ACT OF
AGGRESSION AGAINST SYRIA.
THE SYRIAN MILITARY HAS THE
RIGHT AND RESPONSIBILITY TO
PROTECT ITS COUNTRY AND PEOPLE
FROM ANY FORM OF INFRINGEMENT
EITHER AT HOME OR ABROAD.
>> Brown: IRAN JOINED IN,
WARNING THAT ISRAEL IS, QUOTE,
PLAYING WITH FIRE.
A SYRIAN OPPOSITION GROUP ALSO
CRITICIZED THE ISRAELIS.
>> THIS AGGRESSION IS AN
AGGRESSION AGAINST ALL SYRIAN
PEOPLE WITH ALL ITS FORCES.
WE CALL ON THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY TO PREVENT THE ISRAELI
ENEMY FROM USING THE INTERNAL
SITUATION IN SYRIA TO ACCOMPLISH
ITS GOALS.
>> Brown: THERE WERE NO NEW AIR
STRIKES TODAY.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU TRAVELED TO CHINA FOR
AN OFFICIAL VISIT.
EVEN AS BEIJING CALLED FOR
RESTRAINT.
>> WE THINK THE CURRENT
SITUATION IN THE REGION IS
COMPLICATED AND SENSITIVE.
CHINA HAS ATTACHED GREAT
IMPORTANCE TO IT.
WE OPPOSE THE USE OF MILITARY
FORCE AND BELIEVE ANY COUNTRY'S
SOVEREIGNTY SHOULD BE RESPECTED.
>> Brown: THE WEEKEND STRIKES
CAME AS THE U.S. AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY WRESTLE
WITH WHAT TO DO ABOUT POSSIBLE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS USED BY THE
ASSAD REGIME.
A LEADING MEMBER OF THE U.N.
COMMISSION INVESTIGATING THE
ISSUE SAID SUNDAY THERE IS
EVIDENCE THAT SYRIAN REBELS HAVE
USED SARIN GAS.
THE FULL COMMISSION SAID TODAY
IT HAS REACHED NO CONCLUSIONS ON
THE ISSUE.
AND AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY CAST DOUBT
ON THE CLAIMS.
>> WE FIND IT INCREDIBLE, NOT
CREDIBLE, THAT THE OPPOSITION
HAS USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S A MATTER THAT'S
UNDER INVESTIGATION, BUT, YOU
KNOW, WE THAT I IN ANY USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA IS
ALMOST CERTAIN TO HAVE BEEN DONE
BY THE ASSAD REGIME.
BUT ANY USE WOULD BE A RED LINE
CROSSED.
>> Brown: ALL OF THIS AS THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED THE
U.S., BRITAIN AND FRANCE HAVE
BEEN SECRETLY DISCUSSING THE USE
OF AIR STRIKES IN SYRIA.
TO SOME, INCLUDING ARIZONA
REPUBLICAN SENATOR JOHN
McCAIN, THE WEEKEND'S
EVELDOPMENTS SUGGESTED SYRIAN
DEFENSES WOULD NOT BE MUCH OF AN
OBSTACLE.
>> IN FACT IS WE ARE CAPABLE OF
TAKING OUT THEIR AIR ON THE
GROUND WITH CRUISE MISSILES,
CRATERING THEIR RUNWAYS.
TO ALLEGE THAT THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA CAN'T DO THAT MEANS
WE'VE WASTED A HELL OF A LOT OF
: THE ISRAELIS DEPLOYED IRON DOE
ROCKET BATTERIES TO THE NORTH OF
THE COUNTRY IN CASE THE SYRIANS
TRY TO RETALIATE.
BUT A TOP ISRAELI COMMANDER
PLAYED DOWN THE POSSIBILITY
SAYING THERE ARE NO WINDS OF
WAR.
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED BY:
MICHELE DUNNE, DIRECTOR OF THE
ATLANTIC COUNCIL'S CENTER FOR
THE MIDDLE EAST.
SHE PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF.
AND STEVE CLEMONS, WHO WRITES ON
FOREIGN AFFAIRS AS EDITOR-AT-
LARGE AT THE "ATLANTIC"
MAGAZINE.
MISH DUNN, LET'S START WITH YOU.
WHAT IS BEHIND ISRAEL'S STRIKES
INTO SYRIA?
WHAT ARE THEY AFTER.
>> THE ISRAELI STRIKES INTENDED
TO ELIMINATE MISSILES THAT WERE
SHIPPED FROM IRAN TO HEZBOLLAH
TO BE PUT INTO LEBANON BECAUSE
THESE MISSILES WOULD HAVE
BROUGHT ABOUT A QUALITATIVE
CHANGE IN HEZBOLLAH'S
CAPABILITY, PARTICULARLY THEY
HAVE MUCH MORE PRECISE TARGETING
ABILITY THAN THE MISSILES THAT
HEZBOLLAH CURRENTLY HAS IN
LEBANON, AND THEY ALSO CAN CARRY
A BIGGER PAYLOAD.
SO DO GREATER DAMAGE INSIDE
ISRAEL IF THEY WERE USED.
>> YOU SEE IT AS A FAIRLY NARROW
OR LIMITED PROJECT OR EFFORT?
>> YES.
THIS IS THE SECOND TIME THAT
ISRAEL HAS DONE THIS.
ISRAEL CARRIED OUT AN AIR STRIKE
PREVIOUSLY AGAINST SOME OTHER
MISSILES THAT WERE ON THEIR WAY
TO HEZBOLLAH.
THIS, OF COURSE, THOUGH WAS A
LARGER ATTACK.
IT WAS INSIDE DAMASCUS AND THE
DAMASCUS AREA.
IT CAUSED SIGNIFICANT
CASUALTIES, MORE THAN 40 SYRIAN
SOLDIERS KILLED.
AND I ALSO THINK THERE'S A
BROADER MESSAGE THAT ISRAEL IS
SEND.
IT HAS A SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE.
BUT I THINK ALSO TO SEND THE
MESSAGE TO IRAN THAT ISRAEL IS
SERIOUS ABOUT ENFORCING ITS RED
LINES.
>> Brown: STEVE CLEMONS, WHAT DO
YOU SEE GOING ON HERE
SPECIFICALLY THIS WEEKEND WITH
ISRAEL?
>> WELL, I THINK MICHELLE DUNN
CHARACTERIZED IT ABSOLUTELY
CORRECTLY.
ISRAEL HAS SHOWN SUBSTANTIAL
RESTRAINT THROUGH THIS PERIOD OF
CIVIL STRIFE AND CONFLICT INSIDE
SYRIA, AND SAW THAT IT... THERE
MAY BE SUBSTANTIAL MISSILES
BEING TRANSFERRED TO HEZBOLLAH.
AND THEY TOOK ACTION TO STOP IT.
WHAT'S INTERESTING TO ME AND I
THINK DISCONCERTING IS WE'RE
BEGINNING TO SEE THE BLURRING OF
STATE LINES AND THE POTENTIAL
FOR A BROADENING OF THE WAR.
EVEN THOUGH ISRAEL MAY NOT WANT
THAT -- AND I THINK THAT ISRAEL
HAS TRIED TO BE SURGICAL AND TO
REMAIN CALM -- BROADLY WE HAVE
TO BEGIN ASKING WHAT DOES ASSAD
WANT AND WHAT IS HE THREATENING?
TO SOME DEGREE WHETHER IT'S
TURKEY, LEBANON, OTHER PLAYERS,
BROADENING THE CONFLICT IS A
CARD THAT HE MAY BE BEGINNING TO
PLAY.
I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING WE
SHOULD BE CONCERNED ABOUT IN
WASHINGTON.
>> Brown: WHERE DO YOU SEE THAT?
WHERE DO YOU SEE THAT BLURRING
OF THE LINES?
>> WELL, WE SEE IT IN THE
CROSS-BORDER MILITARY CONFLICT
IN SOME AREAS OF TURKEY.
WE'VE SEEN IT AS YOU'VE BEGUN TO
WATCH THE SAUDI, THE QATAREES
AND THE EMIRATES BEGIN TO WORRY
ABOUT WHAT MAY BE COMING AFTER
THE REGIME.
THEY ARE ALSO CALLING AND
ADVISING AND TRYING TO INTERACT
WITH PEOPLE INSIDE THE SYRIAN
STATE GOVERNMENT, THE
BUREAUCRACY, THEY'RE WORRIED
ABOUT THE INTERNAL DIMENSIONS
OF, YOU KNOW, A SOMEWHAT EXTREME
ISLAMIST TAKEOVER INSIDE THE
COUNTRY.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PLAYERS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHO ARE BEGINNING
TO BECOME MUCH MORE INVOLVED AND
ENGAGED.
ONE OF THE THINGS ASSAD HAS BEEN
PROMISING IN MUCH OF HIS
RHETORIC IS TO BE AWARE THAT
COULD BECOME MUCH MORE
COMPLICATED.
YOU HAVE THREE MILLION KURDS
INSIDE SYRIA WHO FIND COMMON
CAUSE WITH KURDS NOT ONLY IN
IRAN AND KURDISTAN BUT ALSO IN
TURKEY.
THERE'S A LOT OF DIMENSIONS TO
THIS CONFLICT THAT DON'T STAY
NEATLY WITHIN THE BORDERS OF
SYRIA AT ALL AND I THINK
ISRAEL'S ATTACK WHILE SENSIBLE
AND IMPORTANT FOR ISRAEL IS A
MANIFESTATION OF A POTENTIAL
BROADENING OF THE CONFLICT
REGIONALLY.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU,
MICHELLE DUNN, IS ISRAEL, DO YOU
THINK, CALCULATING THAT IT CAN
DO THIS AND NOT BRING ON RETALL
INDICATION OR FURTHER SPILLOVER
EFFORT?
DO YOU THINK THAT IS POSSIBLE OR
IS THAT WHAT WE MAY SEE NOW?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I AGREE
WITH STEVE THAT THIS CONFLICT IS
METASTASIZING.
IT IS SPREADING TO OTHER STATES
IN THE REGION.
I DON'T THINK THAT ISRAEL WANTS
THAT TO HAPPEN.
I DO THINK THEY WERE TAKING WHAT
THEY THOUGHT WAS AN OPPORTUNITY.
THEY HAD OBVIOUSLY HAD THROUGH
SOME METHOD SPOTTED THESE
MISSILES AND THOUGHT THIS IS
THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO GET RID OF
THESE MISSILES BEFORE THEY GET
INTO LEBANON.
THEY DO SEEM TO BE CALCULATING.
WE SAW PRESS LEAKS THAT THEY
WERE CALCULATING THAT BOTH THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT AND HEZBOLLAH
ARE TOO HEAVILY OCCUPIED TO
REALLY FOCUS ON RETALIATING
AGAINST ISRAEL AND THAT IRAN
ALSO PROBABLY DOES NOT WANT TO
TAKE ON ISRAEL AT THIS POINT.
>> Brown: BY THE WAY, DO WE KNOW
WHETHER THERE ARE CONSULTING
WITH THE U.S.... DOES THE U.S.
KNOW AHEAD OF TIME WHEN ISRAEL
DOES SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
DO WE KNOW?
>> I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHETHER
THEY DID OR NOT.
I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF THERE
HAD NOT BEEN SOME ADVANCED
NOTIFICATION TO THE UNITED
STATES.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH TIME TIME
AND PROBABLY THE ISRAELIS WOULD
HAVE ALREADY DECIDED THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO DO THIS, NOT S
MUCH ASKING THE U.S. PERMISSION
AS INFORMING THE U.S. THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO DO IT.
THAT'S JUST A GUESS.
>> Brown: STEVE CLEMONS, IN WHAT
WAYS MIGHT ALL THIS AFFECT THE
U.S. POSITION HERE?
WE SAW IN OUR SET-UP PIECE, FOR
EXAMPLE, SENATOR McCAIN
SAYING, WELL, LOOK -- AND OTHERS
HAVE SAID THIS -- THIS SHOWS AT
LEAST THAT THE SYRIAN AIR
DEFENSE CAN BE BREACHED FAIRLY
EASILY.
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE TWO
SIDES OF OF ANOTHER LINE.
THERE ARE SOME LIKE SENATOR
McCAIN AND FORMER SENATOR
LIEBERMAN, LINDSEY GRAHAM AND
OTHERS WHO ARE CALLING FOR A
MUCH MORE ROW BEST INVOLVEMENT
OF THE U.S. WITH NO FLY ZONES
AND A KIND OF ENGAGEMENT
SOMEWHAT SIMILAR AND MORE ROBUST
AS WE SAW IN LIBYA.
THERE ARE OTHERS WHO ARE WORRIED
THAT EITHER THE SHIPMENT OF
HEAVY ARMS, DEEPER ENGAGEMENT IN
THIS CONFLICT, THAT YOU DON'T
HAVE THE SAME TIPPING POINT
OPPORTUNITIES THAT THE U.S. HAD
IN LIBYA TO COMPLETELY CHANGE
THE "ON THE GROUND" REALITIES
AND THUS THERE'S A WORRY THAT
THIS COULD BE A SLIPPERY SLOPE
TO A MUCH DEEPER KIND OF
ENGAGEMENT WITH HEAVY COSTS TO
THE UNITED STATES.
IN MY SENSE WHAT BARACK OBAMA
WOULD LIKE TO SEE AND IS NOT
GETTING AS AN OPTION IS A WAY TO
HAVE A SMALL FOOTPRINT
INTERVENTION THAT CHANGED THIS.
SO I THINK THAT THE INTERESTING
THING IS TO WATCH THE CAUTION
WITH WHICH ISRAEL HAS BEEN
BEHAVING, THE SURGICAL WAY IN
WHICH IT TOOK OUT THESE WEAPONS.
I IMAGINE THAT'S EXACTLY THE
SAME KIND OF THING THAT THE
UNITED STATES WOULD LIKE TO DO
WITH SECURING THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
AND NOT TURNING THIS INTO AN
EFFORT AGAINST THE BROADER ASSAD
REGIME AND MAKING THE U.S. AS A
PRINCIPAL PLAYER INSIDE SYRIA'S
CIVIL WAR.
SO I THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING
ABOUT McCAIN AND OTHERS IS
THAT THEY'D LIKE TO SEE THESE
INITIATIVES AROUND CHEMICAL
WEAPONS LEAD TO A BROADER
OCCASION TO TOPPLE ASSAD.
I THINK THAT THE WHITE HOUSE IS
POSITIONING ITSELF, IF IT DOES
TAKE ACTION, TO BE ONLY AS
NARROWLY FOCUSED ON THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AND NOT REALLY TO BECOME
MORE DEEPLY ENGAGED IN TRYING TO
TOPPLE THE ASSAD REGIME.
>> Brown: OF COURSE THE
QUESTION, MICHELLE DUNN, IS THAT
POSSIBLE?
CAN THE U.S. STAY THAT FOCUSED
ON THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
AND A LOT OF TALK ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT HAVING PUT HIMSELF IN
SOMETHING OF A BOX WITH HIS RED
LINE LANGUAGE.
>> NO, JEFF, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S POSSIBLE.
>> Brown: YOU DON'T?
NO, BECAUSE FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND TO ACTUALLY SECURE
THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON THE
GROUND IS SOMETHING THAT WOULD
TAKE MORE THAN 10,000 TROOPS AND
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT CAN BE
DONE REMOTELY.
NOW WHAT THE UNITED STATES COULD
DO REMOTELY, YOU'VE HEARD
SENATOR McCAIN SPEAK OF CRUISE
MISSILES AND SO FORTH, IS
PERHAPS GROUND THE SYRIAN AIR
FORCE SO MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT
FOR CHEMICAL WEAPONS TO BE
DELIVERED BY AIRCRAFT.
BUT THAT DOESN'T SECURE THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS THEMSELVES.
THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE DONE
EITHER BY THE SYRIAN REBELS WHO
ARE THERE ON THE GROUND, PERHAPS
AFTER THE OVERTHROW OF THE AL
ASSAD REGIME OR BY SOME FAIRLY
LARGE SCALE FOREIGN
INTERVENTION.
SO I THINK THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION, THE U.S.
ADMINISTRATION IS NOW SEEING
THAT THE COSTS OF INACTION HAVE
STARTED TO OUTWEIGH THE COSTS OF
ACTION.
AND I THINK THEY'RE LOOKING AT A
VARIETY OF OPTIONS INCLUDING
ARMING THE REBELS, INCLUDING
DOING SOMETHING TO GROUND THE
AIR FORCE.
THERE IS ALREADY A FORWARD
HEADQUARTERS OF THE U.S. CENTRAL
COMMAND IN JORDAN BEING
POSITIONED TO TAKE ACTION OF ONE
KIND OR ANOTHER.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
MICHELLE DUNN AND STEVE CLEMONS,
THANKS YOU BOTH VERY YOU.
>> THANKS, JEFF.
YOU.
>> SuareZZ: ONLINE, YOU CAN FIND
MORE ANALYSIS OF ISRAEL'S
MOTIVATIONS, AND A TIMELINE OF
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN SYRIA.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE DEBATE OVER
DISCLOSING CORPORATIONS'
POLITICAL DONATIONS; A FOCUS ON
PROBLEM-SOLVING TO INSPIRE A
DEEPER WAY OF LEARNING; THE DO-
IT-YOURSELF WAY TO MAKE A GUN;
AND THE FRACKING FIGHT IN
POLAND.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: NEW TROUBLE
ERUPTED IN IRAQ TODAY, AS BOMB
BLASTS IN AND AROUND BAGHDAD
KILLED AT LEAST TEN PEOPLE.
IN ONE ATTACK, TWO CAR BOMBS
BLEW UP IN A STREET IN THE
SUBURB OF HUSSEINYA.
ANOTHER WENT OFF OUTSIDE A
RESTAURANT AT LUNCHTIME.
VIOLENCE HAS SPIKED IN IRAQ
FOLLOWING A SECURITY CRACKDOWN
ON A SUNNI CAMP LAST MONTH.
IN AFGHANISTAN, THE WEEKEND
MARKED ONE OF THE DEADLIEST IN
THE LAST YEAR FOR U.S. TROOPS.
SEVEN WERE KILLED IN ATTACKS ON
SATURDAY.
FIVE DIED IN A ROADSIDE BOMB IN
THE SOUTH, AND TWO OTHERS WERE
KILLED WHEN A SOLDIER WITH THE
AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY TURNED HIS
WEAPON ON U.S. SOLDIERS.
ABOUT A WEEK AGO THE TALIBAN
ANNOUNCED ITS NEW SPRING
OFFENSIVE, INCLUDING AN EMPHASIS
ON "INSIDER ATTACKS."
AUTHORITIES IN BANGLADESH BANNED
NEW RALLIES AS CLASHES BETWEEN
POLICE AND HARD-LINE ISLAMISTS
SPREAD.
AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
OVERNIGHT, PROTESTERS BLOCKED
ROADS WITH BURNING TIRES,
DEMANDING THAT BLASPHEMY AGAINST
ISLAM BE OUTLAWED.
POLICE FIRED RUBBER BULLETS AND
BEAT SOME PROTESTERS IN THE
STREETS.
MEANWHILE, THE DEATH TOLL IN THE
COLLAPSE OF A GARMENT FACTORY
ROSE TO 675.
CREWS CONTINUED DIGGING IN THE
RUINS OF THE BUILDING.
A FRIEND OF THE BOSTON BOMBING
SUSPECT HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM
FEDERAL CUSTODY.
ROBEL PHILLIPOS WAS CHARGED LAST
WEEK WITH LYING TO INVESTIGATORS
ABOUT VISITING DZHOKHAR
TSARNAEV'S DORM ROOM AFTER THE
BOMBINGS.
HE'LL REMAIN CONFINED TO HIS
HOME UNTIL HIS TRIAL.
MEANWHILE, THE QUESTION OF WHAT
HAPPENS TO THE REMAINS OF
TAMERLAN TSARNAEV-- THE OTHER
BOMBING SUSPECT-- REMAINS
UNRESOLVED.
SO FAR, NO PLACE IN
MASSACHUSETTS WILL ACCEPT THE
BODY FOR BURIAL.
THE SENATE MOVED TODAY TO LET
STATES CHARGE SALES TAX FOR
PURCHASES MADE OVER THE
INTERNET.
CURRENTLY, SALES TAX APPLIES
ONLY WHEN THE ONLINE COMPANY HAS
AN ACTUAL STORE OR OFFICE
LOCATED IN A GIVEN STATE.
RETAILERS HAVE LOBBIED IN FAVOR
OF THE BILL, BUT IT'S EXPECTED
TO FACE OPPOSITION IN THE HOUSE.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS EDGED UP
AND DOWN.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST FIVE POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
14,969.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 14 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 3393.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO RAY.
>> Suarez: WE TURN TO THE
INTERSECTION OF BUSINESS AND
POLITICS.
THE SUPREME COURT'S 2010
CITIZENS UNITED DECISION WIPED
AWAY LIMITS ON CORPORATE AND
LABOR UNION CAMPAIGN SPENDING.
CORPORATIONS DO NOT HAVE TO
DISCLOSE DONORS FOR "ISSUE"
CAMPAIGNS, BUT THE SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION MAY
CHANGE THAT RULE.
A GROUP OF LAW PROFESSORS HAS
ASKED THE S.E.C. TO ADOPT A RULE
REQUIRING PUBLIC COMPANIES TO
DISCLOSE MONEY DONATED FOR
POLITICS TO SHAREHOLDERS.
SO FAR, THEIR PETITION HAS
GARNERED OVER 500,000 COMMENTS,
MORE THAN ANY IN THE AGENCY'S
HISTORY, AND S.E.C. OFFICIALS
HAVE INDICATED THEY WILL
CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL.
WHAT IS EACH SIDE ARGUING?
WE'RE JOINED BY ROBERT J.
JACKSON, JR., A COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL PROFESSOR
WHO HELPED WRITE THE ORIGINAL
PETITION.
AND PAUL ATKINS, A FORMER S.E.C.
COMMISSIONER.
HE'S THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF
PATOMAK GLOBAL PARTNERS, A
FINANCIAL SERVICES CONSULTING
FIRM.
TODAY IF ACME COMPANY WANTS TO
USE CORPORATE FUNDS TO SUPPORT A
SPECIFIC ISSUE AROUND, LET'S
SAY, ELECTION TIME, DO THE
SHAREHOLDERS HAVE TO BEOLD T IN
ANYWAY?
>> WELL, I MEAN IT DEPENDS ON
EXACTLY WHAT THAT IS.
CORPORATIONS RIGHT NOW IF
THEY'RE GIVING TO POLITICAL
CAMPAIGNS, THEY HAVE TO DISCLOSE
WHAT THEY DO THROUGH PACs OR
THAT SORT OF THING.
IF IT'S DONE THROUGH OTHER SORTS
OF GROUPS, NOT NECESSARILY
SOMETHING THAT DEPENDS ON WHAT
THE ACTUAL FACTS ARE THERE.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR JACKSON,
WHAT WOULD YOUR PROPOSAL TO THE
S.E.C. REQUIRE CORPORATIONS TO
DO?
>> OUR PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE
ALL PUBLIC COMPANIES TO TELL
THEIR SHAREHOLDERS WHETHER AND
HOW THEY HAVE SPENT SHAREHOLDER
MONEY ON POLITICS.
IN PARTICULAR, THE KINDS OF
DONATIONS THAT ARE MADE TO
INTERMEDIARIES SUCH AS THE
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND OTHER
LARGE ORGANIZATIONS THAT TODAY
EXIST LARGELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
CONVEYING CORPORATE MONEY INTO
POLITICS.
THOSE KINDS OF DONATIONS WOULD
HAVE TO BE DISCLOSE TO THE
INVESTORS.
THE BASIC PRINCIPLE UNDERLYING
THE PETITION IS THAT THIS IS
INVESTORS' MONEY.
FOR THAT REASON THEY SHOULD KNOW
HOW TO CORPORATION HAS GONE
ABOUT SPENDING IT.
>> Suarez: PAUL ATKINS, THE
SHAREHOLDERS IF YOU WANT TO
BOTHER TO LOOK AT THE ANNUAL
REPORT -- THERE'S SOMETIMES
PAGING OF TYPE WITH TINY FIGURES
ON IT, BUT YOU'RE REQUIRED TO BE
TOLD ABOUT MATTERS FACING THE
COMPANY ROUTINELY, EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATIO AUDN,ITS, BOARD
ERMBS.
WHY NOT TELL THEM THIS?
>> WELL, RAY, WHAT THIS COMES
DOWN TO, FIRST OF ALL, IS AS FAR
AS THE S.E.C. GOES IS WHETHER OR
NOT THE INFORMATION IS MATERIAL.
THAT'S WHAT GUIDES FROM SUPREME
COURT CASES AND FROM F.C.C.
RULES AND EVEN FROM THE STATUTE
THAT AUTHORIZES THE S.E.C. TO
REQUIRE DISCLOSURE IT COMES DOWN
TO WHAT'S MATERIAL.
>> Suarez: FOR THE PURPOSES OF
THIS CONVERSATION, WHAT DOES
MATERIAL MEAN?
>> FOR A SHAREHOLDER TO DECIDE
WHETHER TO BUY, SELL OR HOLD
THAT PARTICULAR STOCK.
AND SO WHETHER IT WILL CHANGE
THE TOTAL MIX OF INFORMATION
THAT THE SHAREHOLDER HAS.
SHAREHOLDERS HAVE BEEN CON
FRIDACONNECTICUT FRONTED WITH TE
QUESTIONS THROUGH A LOT OF
SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS TIME AND
AGAIN 100 SOME COMPANIES THIS
YEAR AND LAST YEAR AS WL.EL
AND OVER AND OVER SHAREHOLDERS
VOTE OVERWHELMINGLY AGAINST IT.
WHY?
BECAUSE IT'S NOT MATERIAL.
IT DOESN'T REALLY MATTER TO
THEM.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT DISCLOSURE.
THIS IS ABOUT SPECIAL INTERESTS
PUSHING TO TRY TO HAVE
INFORMATION DISCLOSED IN PUBLIC
AND THEN TO USE THAT INFORMATION
AGAINST CORPORATE MANAGEMENT AND
DIRECTORS TO TRY TO GET THEM NOT
TO ENGAGE IN OR NOT EVEN TALKING
BEFORE ABOUT POLITICS OR
POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS BUT
AGAINST... TO TRY TO HAVE THEM
NOT ENGAGE IN POLITICAL
ADVOCACY.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR JACKSON,
APPARENTLY THERE'S ALREADY A
LEGAL STANDARD HERE.
YOU HEARD PAUL ATKINS EXPLAIN
THAT THESE PAYMENTS MIGHT NOT BE
MATERIAL.
WHAT'S YOUR REPLY?
>> TWO POINTS ABOUT THAT I THINK
ARE IMPORTANT.
FIRST IS WE HAVE NO WAY TO KNOW
WHETHER THE SPENDING IS MATERIAL
IN THE WAY THE COMMISSIONER HAS
DESCRIBED BECAUSE THERE'S NO
DISCLOSURE OF THESE PAYMENTS.
IT'S ABSOLUTELY IMPOSSIBLE FOR
ANYBODY TO KNOW WITH CERTAINTY
WHETHER OR NOT THEY'RE MATERIAL
ENOUGH IN TERMS OF FINANCIAL
SIGNIFICANCE TO MEET THE
STANDARD HE DESCRIBED.
SECOND AND MUCH MORE
IMPORTANTLY, THERE ARE LOTS OF
WAYS IN WHICH INFORMATION CAN BE
MADE MATERIAL TO INVESTORS.
IT CAN BE MATERIAL BECAUSE OF
THE AMOUNT.
BUT THEY CAN ALSO BE MATERIAL
BECAUSE OF WHAT THEY REPRESENT.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT CORPORATE
SPENDING ON POLITICS HAS
SIGNIFICANCE THAT GOES FAR
BEYOND THE BOTTOM LINE OF THE
CORPORATION.
THAT'S WHY, FOR EXAMPLE,
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION IS
REQUIRED TO BE DISCLOSED EVEN
THOUGH IT MIGHT NOT BE MATERIAL
IN TERMS OF AMOUNT, SHAREHOLDERS
HAVE MADE CLEAR THAT THEY CARE
ABOUT THIS INFORMATION AND WANT
TO HAVE I O.
FOR THE SAME REASON THERE'S NO
REAL BASIS FOR CONCLUDING THAT
SHAREHOLDERS OF CORPORATE
SPENDING ON POLITICS IS LIKELY
NOT TO BE MATERIAL.
TO THE CONTRARY I THINK
SHAREHOLDERS HAVE GOOD REASON TO
CARE ABOUT IT.
THE EVIDENCE SHOWS THAT THEY DO.
>> Suarez: HOW CAN YOU JUDGE
MATERIALITY IF THE ACCESS IS
OPAQUE, IF YOU CAN'T SEE THE
FIGURE.
>> WELL, FIR OF ALL IF IT'S
MATERIAL TO ANY PARTICULAR
COMPANY THE RULES ALREADY
REQUIRE THAT THAT AMOUNT BE
DISCLOSED.
IN FACT, IN THE ACTUAL RULES
THAT GOVERN HOW THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS ARE MADE UP, IT EVEN
WOULD SAY THAT IT BE BROKEN OUT
IF IT'S A MATERIAL AMOUNT IN THE
CONTEXT OF THAT PARTICULAR
CORPORATION.
AND TO PROFESSOR JACKSON'S POINT
EVEN IF YOU TAKE ALL OF THE
MONEY THAT'S GIVEN TO THESE C-4
SORTS OF ASSOCIATIONS AND IT
COMES TO HOW MANY OTHER HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EVEN IF
IT ALL COMES FROM CORPORATIONS
AND NOT FROM LABOR UNIONS AND
OTHER THINGS LIKE THAT, IT WOULD
STILL BE IMMATERIAL IN THE WHOLE
CONTEXT OF ALL PUBLIC COMPANY
SPENDING IN THE UNITED STATE
>> Suarez: BUT IS MATERIALITY AN
OBJECTIVE STANDARD?
>> YES, IT IS.
Suarez: OR IS THERE
SUBJECTIVITY TO IT IF I'M A
SHAREHOLDER AND MONEY THAT'S NOT
GOING INTO CAPITAL INVESTMENT,
THAT'S NOT GOING INTO PAYING ME
DIVIDEND, IS GOING INTO
FURTHERING POLITICAL AIMS THAT I
MAY SUPPORT OR I MAY DETEST?
>> WELL, ABOUT 30 YEARS OR SO
AGO, THURGOOD MARSHALL WROTE AN
OPINION FOR THE SUPREME COURT IN
WHICH HE BASICALLY SET THE
SEMINAL TEST FOR MATERIALITY.
IT IS WHAT A REASONABLE
SHAREHOLDER WOULD JUDGE TO BE
IMPORTANT FOR IN JUDGING THE
TOTAL MIX OF INFORMATION
AVAILABLE TO HIM OR HER TO
DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT TO BUY,
SELL OR HOLD THAT PARTICULAR
COMPANY'S STOCK.
SO IT IS AN OBJECTIVE TEST IN
THE WAY THE LAW IS DONE.
SO THE OTHER THING WITH RESPECT
TO EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND
OTHER SORTS OF DISCLOSURE LIKE
THAT THE PROFESSOR CITED ARE ALL
THINGS THAT HAVE TO DO... THEY
HAVE BEEN LONG IN THE S.E.C.'S
HISTORY OF DISCLOSURE THAT DEAL
WITH THE BOARD AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR JACKSON,
CAN YOUR PETITION SURVIVE THAT
TEST?
INVOLVING WHETHER OR NOT THESE
AMOUNTS ARE MATERIAL?
>> ABSOLUTELY IT CAN.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO THE
COMMISSIONER, THE EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION RULES THAT REQUIRE
DISCLOSURE OF RELATIVELY SMALL
AMOUNTS FOR LARGE PUBLIC
COMPANIES WERE ONLY REALLY
EXPANDED IN 1992, MANY DECADES
AFTER THURGOOD MARSHALL WROTE
THE OPINION HE'S DESCRIBING.
THE FACT IS THE S.E.C. HAS
PLENARY DISCRETION TO DETERMINE
WHAT IS MATERIAL.
WHAT THEY SAID VERY CONSISTENTLY
OVER THE YEARS WITH RESPECT TO
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, WITH
RESPECT TO DECISIONS WHERE
DIRECTORS HAVE A FINANCIAL
INTEREST IN THE TRANSACTION,
WITH RESPECT TO DISCLOSURES
ABOUT THE DIRECTOR'S OVERSIGHT
OF RISK, ALL OF THESE
DISCLOSURES HAVE BEEN HELD BY
THE S.E.C. TO BE MATERIAL
BECAUSE IT'S CLEAR THAT
INVESTORS ARE INTERESTED IN THIS
INFORMATION AND IN THE CASE OF
POLITICAL SPENDING, IT COULD NOT
BE MORE CLEAR THAT INVESTORS
WANT THIS INFORMATION.
THE SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS
REQUESTING THAT COMPANIES
PUBLICLY DISCLOSE THEIR SPENDING
ON POLITICS IS BY FAR THE MOST
COMMON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PROPOSAL IN PUBLIC CORPORATIONS
TODAY.
I'LL TELL YOU THAT THE EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION RULES THAT WERE
EXPANDED IN 1992 WHEN THE S.E.C.
DID THAT, THEY GAVE AS A REASON
SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS AND THE
SHAREHOLDER INTEREST IN THIS
SUBJECT ARE... BECAUSE THESE
AMOUNTS HAVE SUPPRESSIVE
SIGNIFICANCE THAT HAVE NOTHING
TO DO WITH THE BOTTOM LINE AND
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE FULLY
CONSISTENT WITH THE S.E.C.'S
PRECEDENT I THINK IT'S VERY
CLEAR THAT THE MATERIALITY
STANDARD PROVIDES NO BAR AT ALL
TO THE S.E.C. ADOPTING THESE
RULES.
>> Suarez: WE'LL WATCH THE
EVOLUTION OF THIS ISSUE.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: NEXT, HOW ONE PUBLIC
SCHOOL IN NEW ENGLAND IS TAKING
A DIFFERENT APPROACH TO
TEACHING, IMMERSING STUDENTS IN
AN UNUSUALLY COMPREHENSIVE
SCIENCE CURRICULUM THAT
EMPHASIZES PROBLEM-SOLVING.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
TULENKO OF LEARNING MATTERS,
WHICH PRODUCES EDUCATION STORIES
FOR THE NEWSHOUR, HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: ON A CRISP FALL
MORNING LAST OCTOBER, KING
MIDDLE SCHOOL IN PORTLAND,
MAINE, INVITED EIGHTH-GRADERS TO
WHAT IT CALLS A KICKOFF, THE
UNVEILING OF AN IN-DEPTH PROJECT
THAT WOULD BE AT THE CENTER OF
NEARLY ALL THE STUDENTS COURSES
FOR THE NEXT FOUR MONTHS.
>> I DIRECT YOUR ATTENTION TO
THIS SLIDE.
THIS IS CALLED EARTH AT NIGHT.
>> Reporter: SCIENCE TEACHER
PETER HILL SET THE STAGE.
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN PARTS OF
THE WORLD THAT USE A TON OF
ENERGY.
ALONG WITH THAT, 25% OF THE
WORLD'S POPULATION DOESN'T HAVE
ELECTRICITY AT ALL.
BUT ENOUGH SOLAR ENERGY HITS THE
EARTH EVERY HOUR TO SUPPLY THE
ENTIRE WORLD'S ENERGY NEEDS FOR
A YEAR.
SO WE NEED TO DESIGN TOOLS THAT
CAN CAPTURE ALL THAT SUNLIGHT
THAT'S HITTING EARTH.
OR CAPTURE ALL THAT WIND POWER
THAT'S SITTING OUT ON THE GULF
OF MAINE.
WE NEED TO-- WAIT FOR IT--
REVOLT.
>> Reporter: HILL HANDED THE
STUDENTS AN AMBITIOUS ASSIGNMENT
TO FULFILL BY THE END OF THE
PROJECT.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO CREATE A
DEVICE THAT CAPTURES NATURAL
ENERGY AND TRANSFORMS IT INTO
SOMETHING THAT'S USEFUL FOR
PEOPLE IN SOME PART OF THE
WORLD.
>> I WAS LIKE, I CAN'T DO THAT.
>> Reporter: TAKING ALL THIS IN
WAS LIVA PIERCE.
>> THAT'S WAY TOO MUCH.
I DON'T KNOW THE FIRST THING
ABOUT ELECTRICITY.
ABOUT WINDMILLS.
I DON'T KNOW THE FIRST THING
I AM TOTALLY GOING TO FAIL.
ABOUT WINDMILLS.
>> I WAS LIKE, THERE'S NO WAY
I AM TOTALLY GOING TO FAIL.
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> I WAS LIKE, THERE'S NO WAY
FIRST OF ALL, I CAN'T BUILD
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
ANYTHING AND I'VE NEVER HANDLED
FIRST OF ALL, I CAN'T BUILD
A SCREWDRIVER IN MY ENTIRE LIFE
ANYTHING AND I'VE NEVER HANDLED
OR AN ELECTRIC DRILL-- LIKE,
A SCREWDRIVER IN MY ENTIRE LIFE
THIS ISN'T GOING TO WORK.
OR AN ELECTRIC DRILL-- LIKE,
>> SO I WANT YOU TO THINK ABOUT
THIS ISN'T GOING TO WORK.
THE BIG PICTURE HERE.
>> SO I WANT YOU TO THINK ABOUT
>> Reporter: PROJECTS THAT TAKE
THE BIG PICTURE HERE.
STUDENTS INTO UNCHARTED
>> Reporter: PROJECTS THAT TAKE
TERRITORY ARE AT THE HEART OF
STUDENTS INTO UNCHARTED
TEACHING AND LEARNING AT KING.
TERRITORY ARE AT THE HEART OF
THOUGH IT'S A REGULAR PUBLIC
TEACHING AND LEARNING AT KING.
SCHOOL, THIS APPROACH, CALLED
THOUGH IT'S A REGULAR PUBLIC
EXPEDITIONARY LEARNING, IS
SCHOOL, THIS APPROACH, CALLED
UNUSUAL, BUT COULD BE JUST THE
EXPEDITIONARY LEARNING, IS
KIND OF EDUCATION STUDENTS NEED
UNUSUAL, BUT COULD BE JUST THE
IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING WORLD.
KIND OF EDUCATION STUDENTS NEED
THIS EXPEDITION BEGAN WITH A
IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING WORLD.
DESIGN CHALLENGE.
THIS EXPEDITION BEGAN WITH A
>> WE'RE BUILDING ROBOTS THAT
DESIGN CHALLENGE.
ARE MADE TO COLLECT RESOURCES
>> WE'RE BUILDING ROBOTS THAT
THAT ARE PING-PONG BALLS.
ARE MADE TO COLLECT RESOURCES
>> Reporter: NAT YOUNGRIN AND
THAT ARE PING-PONG BALLS.
HIS CLASSMATES WERE BUILDING
>> Reporter: NAT YOUNGRIN AND
THEIR ROBOTS FROM KITS THAT
HIS CLASSMATES WERE BUILDING
ALLOW FOR AN ALMOST INFINITE
THEIR ROBOTS FROM KITS THAT
NUMBER OF POSSIBILITIES.
ALLOW FOR AN ALMOST INFINITE
>> YOU CAN DO WHATEVER YOU WANT
NUMBER OF POSSIBILITIES.
TO MAKE THEM DO THIS, BUT TH
>> YOU CAN DO WHATEVER YOU WANT
BALLS, AND BRING THEM BACK.
TO MAKE THEM DO THIS, BUT TH
I MADE MINE COMPLETELY SOUND-
BALLS, AND BRING THEM BACK.
CONTROLLED, AND WHEN YOU CLAP,
YOU CAN CONTROL IT TO TURN AND
MOVE BACK TO YOUR BASE.
>> THIS ONE HAS TO BE MUCH
LONGER.
>> Reporter: WORKING IN TEAMS,
STUDENTS SPT FOENUR WEEKS
CALLED TECH-ED.
GUS GOODWIN IS THE TEACHER.
> THIS KIND OF REALLY HONES IN
ON ENGINEERING.
>> Reporter: WHAT IS THE DESIGN
PROCESS?
>> THEY HAVE TO PROGRAM A ROBOT,
BUILD IT, TINKER WITH IT, AND
GET IT TO WORK.
>> Reporter: LIVA PIERCE, WHO AT
THE KICKOFF HAD FEARED FAILING,
SEEMED TO EMBRACE ROBOTICS.
>> Reporter: WE MADE THIS WIDE
THING THAT, WHEN IT GOES
FORWARD, IT WILL CATCH THE
BALLS.
IT'S PRETTY HARD.
>> LET'S GO, CHIPMUNKS!
LET'S GO!
>> Reporter: JUST BEFORE
THANKSGIVING, STUDENTS PUT THEIR
CREATIONS TO THE TEST AT A
SCHOOL COMPETITION DUBBED "ROBO-
WARS."
NAT YOUNGRIN'S ROBOT STARTED
WELL ENOUGH-- AND STALLED.
THE ROOM WAS TOO NOISY FOR ITS
SOUND CONTROLS.
>> OH, MY GOD!
>> Reporter: AS FOR LIVA
PI
THEY FINISHED SECOND.
THE OBJECTIVE FOR ALL THE
STUDENTS WAS THAT THIS ACTIVITY
WOULD SOMEHOW BRING THEM CLOSER
TO DESIGNING AN ENERGY
GENERATING DEVICE OF THEIR OWN.
>> THE ROBOT COMPETITION WAS
REALLY SUCCESSFUL.
KIDS ARE REALLY, I THINK,
THEY'VE INTERNALIZED THE DESIGN
PROCESS.
THEY KNOW IT'S AN ONGOING
THEY KNOW THEY NEED TO ENGINEER
PROCESS.
THEIR DESIGNS AND CONSTANTLY
THEY KNOW THEY NEED TO ENGINEER
REVISE AND GET FEEDBACK.
THEIR DESIGNS AND CONSTANTLY
AND SO WE'RE ON OUR WAY.
REVISE AND GET FEEDBACK.
>> Reporter: BY EARLY DECEMBER,
AND SO WE'RE ON OUR WAY.
STUDENTS WERE ON TO THE SECOND
>> Reporter: BY EARLY DECEMBER,
LEG OF THEIR JOURNEY: LEARNING
STUDENTS WERE ON TO THE SECOND
THE SCIENCE AND SOCIAL ISSUES
LEG OF THEIR JOURNEY: LEARNING
THAT WOULD BE AT THE HEART OF
THE SCIENCE AND SOCIAL ISSUES
THEIR INVENTION.
THAT WOULD BE AT THE HEART OF
AND THE PATH TEACHERS CHOOSE TO
THEIR INVENTION.
TAKE STUDENTS THERE, AN EIGHT-
AND THE PATH TEACHERS CHOOSE TO
WEEK-LONG INTERDISCIPLINARY
TAKE STUDENTS THERE, AN EIGHT-
STUDY OF WIND POWER.
WEEK-LONG INTERDISCIPLINARY
SCIENCE TEACHER PETER HILL:
STUDY OF WIND POWER.
>> WE STARTED WITH THE WIND
SCIENCE TEACHER PETER HILL:
TURBINE.
>> WE STARTED WITH THE WIND
HOW DO THESE THINGS WORK?
TURBINE.
SO WE TOOK APART A MOTOR AND WE
HOW DO THESE THINGS WORK?
SAID, WELL, THERE'S MAGNETS AND
SO WE TOOK APART A MOTOR AND WE
WIRES IN HERE.
SAID, WELL, THERE'S MAGNETS AND
HOW DO MAGNETS AND WIRES
WIRES IN HERE.
INTERACT TO GENERATE
HOW DO MAGNETS AND WIRES
ELECTRICITY?
INTERACT TO GENERATE
>> Reporter: TO MAKE THE
ELECTRICITY?
LEARNING GO DEEPER, IN TECH-ED
>> Reporter: TO MAKE THE
CLASS STUDENTS BUILT WORKING
LEARNING GO DEEPER, IN TECH-ED
MODEL WIND TURBINES.
CLASS STUDENTS BUILT WORKING
>> THE CRITERIA FOR THIS PROJECT
MODEL WIND TURBINES.
IS THAT THEY HAVE TO BUILD A
>> THE CRITERIA FOR THIS PROJECT
WIND TURBINE THAT IS STABLE AND
IS THAT THEY HAVE TO BUILD A
STURDY.
WIND TURBINE THAT IS STABLE AND
IT HAS TO GENERATE AT LEAST ONE
STURDY.
VOLT OF ELECTRICITY, AND THE
IT HAS TO GENERATE AT LEAST ONE
OTHER PIECE IS THAT WE WANT IT
VOLT OF ELECTRICITY, AND THE
TO BE CREATIVE, OUTRAGEOUS,
OTHER PIECE IS THAT WE WANT IT
INGENIOUS, AND INSPIRATIONAL.
TO BE CREATIVE, OUTRAGEOUS,
>> Reporter: THE POLITICS OF
INGENIOUS, AND INSPIRATIONAL.
WIND POWER WAS THE SUBJECT IN
>> Reporter: THE POLITICS OF
SOCIAL STUDIES.
WIND POWER WAS THE SUBJECT IN
>> THE POINT IS TO FIND A PLACE
SOCIAL STUDIES.
WHERE IT WOULD BE GOOD OR
>> THE POINT IS TO FIND A PLACE
POSSIBLE TO HAVE A WIND TURBINE,
WHERE IT WOULD BE GOOD OR
TO SEE IF THERE'S ANYTHING
POSSIBLE TO HAVE A WIND TURBINE,
THERE, LIKE WHAT THE
TO SEE IF THERE'S ANYTHING
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS WOULD BE
THERE, LIKE WHAT THE
IF THERE'S A BUNCH OF WIND
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS WOULD BE
TURBINES IN THE AREA.
IF THERE'S A BUNCH OF WIND
>> YOU GET THOSE DISCUSSIONS
TURBINES IN THE AREA.
AROUND WHAT IS A SENSE OF PLACE,
>> YOU GET THOSE DISCUSSIONS
AND WHAT IS SCENIC BEAUTY, AND
AROUND WHAT IS A SENSE OF PLACE,
HOW DO YOU ALLEVIATE THAT ISSUE?
AND WHAT IS SCENIC BEAUTY, AND
>> Reporter: NEXT, MARK GERVAIS'
HOW DO YOU ALLEVIATE THAT ISSUE?
STUDENTS WILL ARGUE FOR THEIR
>> Reporter: NEXT, MARK GERVAIS'
ADDRESSED TO LOCAL OFFICIALS.
BUT FOR THEIR LIFE-IMPROVING
INVENTION, STUDENTS WOULD HAVE
TO LEARN ABOUT FARAWAY PLACES.
IN ENGLISH CLASS, THEY READ "THE
BOY WHO HARNEED TSSHE WIND," THE
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF WILLIAM
KAMKWAMBA OF MALAWI, AFRICA.
>> HE MANAGED TO BUILD A WIND
TURBINE, POWER HIS HOUSE, GET
ALL THIS STUFF THAT HE WOULDN'T
HAVE HAD IF HE HADN'T TRIED, AND
HE DID IT WITH, LIKE, A BOOK AND
SOME TRASH.
>> AND HE WENT THROUGH THIS
AWFUL FAMINE, AND IT WAS REALLY
SHOCKING TO ME THAT HCOULE D GO
THOUGHR ALL THAT AND STILL HAVE
HOPE.
>> THAT WAS A REALLY BIG THEME
IN THE BOOK-- THAT IF YOU TRY
AND DON'T STOP NO MATTER WHAT'S
IN THE WAY, YOU'LL EVENTUALLY
GET THERE.
>> Reporter: INSPIRED BY THE
BOOK, STUDENTS LIKE LIVA PIERCE
PUSHED AHEAD WITH THEIR OWN
MODEL WIND TURBINES.
>> I HAD A LOT OF STRUGGLES WITH
MY TURBINE.
AND I SAID, "YOU KNOW WHAT?
I'M GOING TO MAKE THIS GENERATE
MORE THAN A VOLT."
SO I MADE A WHOLE NEW SET OF
BLADES.
BUT THEN I HEARD ABOUT OTHER
PEOPLE, AND IT WAS LIKE OH, HE'S
GETTING SIX VOLTS!
SO I WAS LIKE ARGH, I'VE GOT TO
GET MORE THAN THAT!
>> Reporter: AFTER EIGHT WEEKS
AND THREE NEW SETS OF BLADES,
LIVA AND HER CLASSMATES WIND
TURBINES WERE FINALLY READY.
AND KING MIDDLE SCHOOL STAGED
ANOTHER COMPETITION.
>> THE MORE I GOT INTO IT, THE
MORE I JUST COULDN'T STOP.
I JUST WANTED TO KEEP GOING AND
MAKING IT BETTER AND BETTER AND
BETTER.
I WAS STEADILY INCREASING.
>> Reporter: EACH TURBINE'S
ELECTRICAL OUTPUT WAS CAPTURED
BY A COMPUTER.
LIVAS TOPPED OUT AT 5.9 VOLTS.
>> IN THE TEAM COMPETITION...
>> Reporter: AND WHETHE N FINAL
TALLIES WERE ANNOUNCED...
>> GIVE IT UP FOR THE WINNERS:
LOBSTERS!
>> Reporter: ...HER TEAM
FINISHED FIRST.
BY FEBRUARY, STUDENTS HAD
REACHED THE FINAL STAGE OF THE
PROJECT: CREATING AN ENERGY-
GENERATING DEVICE THAT IMPROVES
PEOPLE'S LIVES.
>> AS A TEAM OF TEACHERS, WE
BRAINSTORMED WHAT ARE TEN THINGS
THAT REALLNEEDY  TO GET SOLVED
IN THE WORLD?
WE CAME UP WITH PURIFY WATER,
LIGHT A ROOM AT NIGHT, CHARGE A
CELL PHONE.
STUFF LIKE THAT JUST TO KIND OF
GET KIDS ROLLING, JUST GIVE THEM
A LITTLE PUSH TO GET THE
CREATIVE JUICES FLOWING.
>> Reporter: THE ASSIGNMENT WAS
TO CREATE A TECHNICAL DRAWING.
EMMA SCHWARTZ DESIGNED A LIGHT.
>> I CALL IT THE RUB-A-DUB
SCRUB.
IT'S A SPONGE THAT GENERATES
LIGHT-- WHICH YOU MIGHT THINK,
OH, MY GOD, EVERYONE IS GOING TO
GET ELECTROCUTED.
BUT NO, I'M GOING TO MAKE SURE
NO ONE GETS ELECTROCUTED.
AS YOU CAN SEE, THERE'S A LITTLE
DOME WITH LIGHTS AT THE TOP.
THERE ARE SCRUBBERS ON THE
BOTTOM.
THE SCRUBBERS ARE ATTACHED TO
MAGNETS, WHICH SPIN AROUND
WIRES.
WHEN YOU ROTATE IT ON DISHES THE
SCRUBBERS ROTATE, THAT CREATES
THE ELECTRONS TO FLOW AND THAT
GENERATES ELECTRICITY.
>> Reporter: LIVA PIERCE CREATED
A CRANK FLASHLIGHT.
>> IT WILL HAVE UVB, UVC, AND
REGULAR LIGHT.
UVC KILLS BACTERIA IN WATER, SO
>> Reporter: HER UVB LIGHT IN
SUPPOSED TO DRAW INSECTS AWAY
FROM PEOPLE.
>> IT WILL HAVE "OFF,"
"REGULAR," "WATER," "BUGS."
AND I'M CALLING IT THE ECO
BRIGHT.
>> Reporter: FOR THE FINAL EVENT
OF THE PROJECT, PARENTS WERE
INVITED IN TO HEAR ALL ABOUT THE
UDENSTTS' INVENTIONS.
>> THE RUB-A-DUB SCRUB TAKES THE
USUALLY WASTED ROTATIONAL
KINETIC ENERGY OF WASHING
DISHES.
>> THIS IS, LIKE, LIVE SHOWING
WHAT YOU'RE LEARNING TO OTHER
PEOPLE, WHICH KIND OF GIVES YOU
SOMETHING MORE BACK, I THINK.
>> AND YOU HAVE TO BE CLEAR AND
CONCISE AND ARTICULATE ABOUT
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
I THINK THAT GIVING
PRESENTATIONS IS SO IMPORTANT,
BECAUSE IT REALLY ARMS YOU WITH
SKILLS THAT YOU'LL NEED LATER IN
LIFE.
>> JUST THINK IF WASHING DISHES
COULD BE FUN.
>> Reporter: LIKE EMMA'S
INVENTION, THE STUDENTS'
CREATIONS WILL GO NO FARTHER
THAN THE DRAWING BOARD.
WHAT'S MORE, AS THEY MOVE ON TO
NEW SUBJECTS AND NEW GRADES,
THEY MAY FORGET THE PARTICULARS
OF AMPS AND ELECTRONS.
BUT SOME THINGS THEY WILL
REMEMBER.
>> THROUGH THIS EXPEDITION, I
HAVE LEARNED HOW TO COMMUNICATE
WITH OTHER PEOPLE TO MAKE
SOMETHING HAPPEN.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT CHANGED
ME MOST.
>> BEFORE THIS EXPEDITION, I
KIND OF ALWAYS THOUGHT OF MYSELF
AS I'M GOOD AT WRITING AND I'M
GOOD AT READING, AND THAT'S WHAT
I'M GOOD AT.
>> THIS EXPEDITION HAS COMPLETED
CHANGED MY IDEA OF SCIENCE.
SCIENCE IS DOI ANDNG SCIENCE IS
BUILDING, AND SCIENCE IS
CREATING.
>> Reporter: WHAT MAKES THIS
SCHOOL A SUCCESS?
IT'S NOT BECAUSE OF ANY CHARTER
STATUS: IT'S A REGULAR PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
IT'S NOT BECAUSE IT CATERS TO
SOME STUDENTS OVER OTHERS: IT'S
DIVERSE WITH OPEN ADMISSION.
THE SECRET, AS WE SAW IT, WAS
RELEVANCE.
>> USUALLY IN SCHOOL YOU LEARN
ABOUT THINGS THAT ARE HAPPENING
IN THE WORLD THAT ARE BAD.
IN SOCIAL STUDIES, YOU MIGHT
LEARN ABOUT AN EARTHQUAKE.
BUT I FEEL THAT SCHOOLS
SHOULDN'T JUST BE ABOUT LEARNING
ABOUT PROBLEMS.
I THINK THEY SHOULD BE ABOUT
SOLVING THEM.
BECAUSE IF YOU'RE NOT LEARNING
ABOUT HOW TO SOLVE PROBLEMS,
THEN WHAT WILL YOU DO WHEN
YOU'RE OUT OF SCHOOL?
>> Reporter: THE EXPEDITIONARY
LEARNING APPROACH IS GROWING AND
CAN BE FOUND IN 161 SCHOOLS
NATIONWIDE.
Brown: THERE'S ONE FOR ALL OF
YOU WHO WRITE IN ASKING FOR
POSITIVE STORIES IN OUR WORLD.
TOMORROW, WE'LL HAVE ANOTHER
LOOK AT NEW WAYS TO ENGAGE
STUDENTS IN SCIENCE, AND PROMOTE
PROBLEM SOLVING, WHEN SPENCER
MICHELS REPOR ON TSTHE OPENING
OF THE EXPLORATORIUM IN SAN
FRANCISCO.
>> Suyarez: NOW TO A NEW WRINKLE
IN THE GUN DEBATE TIED TO EVER-
SPEEDING ADVANCES IN TECHNOLOGY.
FOR THE FIRST TIME THIS WEEKEND,
A PLASTIC GUN CREATED BY A 3-D
PRINTER SUCCESSFULLY FIRED A
REAL BULLET.
THAT SUCCESS HAS STIRRED UP MANY
QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS ABOUT ITS
POTENTIAL IMPACT.
THE WORLD'S FIRST FULLY
FUNCTIONING 3D PRINTABLE HANDGUN
IS THE BRAIN CHILD OF CODY
WILSON, A UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
LAW STUDENT.
DUBBED THE LIBERATOR, IT'S
FASHIONED FROM 15 PLASTIC PARTS
CREATED ON AN $8,000
THREE-DIMENSIONAL PRINTER.
THE TECHNOLOGY IS ALREADY
COMMONLY USED IN VARIOUS
INDUSTRIES.
A PRINTER LAYS DOWN MELTED
POLYMER FILAMENTS LAYER BY LAYER
ACCORDING TO PRECISE DIGITAL
BLUEPRINTS TO FORM SOLID PLASTIC
OBJECTS.
THAT MEANS THE LIBERATOR WOULD
BE UNDETECTABLE TO AIRPORT
SECURITY SCREENERS AND THEREFORE
ILLEGAL.
THE ONLY METAL IN THE GUN IS THE
COMMON HOUSEHOLD NAIL USED AS A
FIRING PIN AND A SIX-OUNCE PIECE
OF METAL ADDED TO ENSURE THE
WEAPON IS DETECTABLE TO COMPLY
WITH CURRENT LAW.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER QUESTIONS.
WILSON'S NONPROFIT GUNNED
ADVOCATE GROUP, DEFENSE
DISTRIBUTED, IS PUBLISHING THE
DESIGN FILES ONLINE SO ANYONE IN
THE WORLD CAN DOWNLOAD THE
BLUEPRINTS AND PRINT A
LIBERATOR.
ALL OF THIS WITHOUT A BACKGROUND
CHECK OR ANY SERIAL
THE GROUP IS ALSO DEVELOPING 3D
PRINTABLE COMPONENTS FOR
HIGH-CAPACITY AUTOMATIC WEAPONS.
IT POSTED VIDEO OF TEST FIRINGS
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
MORE ABOUT THIS TECHNOLOGY, THE
MAN BEHIND THE PROJECT AND THE
QUESTIONS THIS ALL RAISES FROM
ANDY GREENBURG OF FORBES.
HE'S BEEN COVERING THIS STORY
AND WAS IN AUSTIN WHEN CODY
WILSON FIRST TESTED THE GUN.
ANDY, NOW THAT THIS THRESHOLD
HAS BEEN CROSSED AND WE KNOW IT
CAN BE DONE, I GUESS THE FIRST
QUESTION IS WHETHER IT'S HARD
FOR REGULAR PEOPLE TO DO.
>> I THINK IT IS ACTUALLY PRETTY
DIFFICULT FOR NOW.
THE MACHINE THAT CODY WILSON AND
HIS COHORTS USED WAS AN $8,000
USED VERY HIGH TECH 3D PRINTER.
SO THIS ISN'T THE KIND OF $2,000
THE KIND OF APPLE TOOL OF 3D
PRINTERS THAT PEOPLE ARE GETTING
EXCITED ABOUT TODAY.
THIS IS A MORE INDUSTRIAL
MACHINE.
THE STORY IS ABOUT THE FUTURE.
IT'S ONLY GOING TO BE A COUPLE
OF YEARS BEFORE WHAT WILSON IS
DOING IS AFFORDABLE FOR REGULAR
PEOPLE.
>> Suarez: YOU WERE THERE.
YOU WATCHED IT BEING USED.
IT DIDN'T BLOW UP IN HIS HAND OR
SHATTER INTO PLASTIC SHARDS.
IS THIS A STURDY, RELIABLE,
REUSABLE FIREARM OR ONE AND DONE
KIND OF WEAPON?
>> IT ACTUALLY DOES SEEM TO BE
FAIRLY DURABLE.
I'VE WATCHED VIDEOS OF A 3D
PRINTED BARREL BEING FIRED TEN
TIMES WITHOUT CRACKING.
I DID SEE CODY WILSON FIRE HIS
LIBERATOR HANDGUN TWICE.
ONCE WITH A REMOTE TRIGGER PULL
WITH THE STRING AND ONCE BY
HAND.
IT DIDN'T EXPLODE OR CRACK THOSE
TIMES EITHER.
BUT IT'S UNCLEAR WHETHER THIS
IS, YOU KNOW, A DURABLE WEAPON.
I THINK THE KEY THING TO
REMEMBER THOUGH IS THAT IT HAS A
BARREL THAT CAN B SWAPPED OUT.
YOU CAN PRINT A NEW BARREL IN A
COUPLE OF HOURS.
HE SHOWED ME HE HAD KIND OF A
IT WOULD BE REALLY SIMPLE TO
PRINT OUT FOUR OR FIVE OF THESE
AND HAVE THEM READY TO GO.
EVEN IF THE BARREL OF THIS
HOMEMADE WEAPON IS DEFORMED AND
DOESN'T WORK, YOU CAN ALWAYS
HAVE ANOTHER ONE READY.
THAT'S PART OF THE DANGER OF
THIS GUN.
>> Suarez: IF YOU REMEMBER THE
LAST BIG ROUND OF SPECULATION
ABOUT PLASTIC WEAPONS IT REALLY
FOCUSED A LOT ON THEIR
UNDETECTABILITY IN MAGNET-METERS
AND OTHER KINDS OF SCREENERS.
THIS TIME IT'S THE "DO IT
YOURSELF AT HOME" ASPECT THAT'S
GETTING MORE ATTENTION.
ISN'T IT?
>> I THINK THAT THAT'S
WARRANTED.
THE FACT THAT STEVE ISRAEL AND
CHUCK SHEUMER, THESE TWO
CONGRESSMAN ARE FOCUSED ON THE
UNDETECTABILITY OF THE WEAPON I
THINK KIND OF MISSES THE POINT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO RENEW THE
UNDETECTABLE FIREARMS ACT TO
PREVENT THIS.
IT'S NOT THE FACT THAT THIS GUN
IS PLASTIC AND CAN'T BE DETECTED
BY A METAL DETECTOR THAT MAKES
IT DANGEROUS.
IT'S THE FACT THAT ANYONE CAN
CREATE IT IN THERIVA PCY OF
THEIR GUARDS WITH A COUPLE OF
CLICKS AND SOME SOFTWARE AND A
DOWNLOAD FROM THEIR INTERNET.
HE'S FOCUSED AS THE NAME OF HIS
GROUP IMPLIES ON THE DISTRIBUTED
NATURE OF THIS WEAPON, THE FACT
THAT IT CIRCUMVENTS GUN CONTROL,
NOT THAT IT CIRCUMVENTS METAL
DETECTORS.
>> Suarez: WHAT EXACTLY IS HIS
MOTIVATION?
YOU TOUCHED ON IT BRIEFLY?
DOES HE WANT MORE PEOPLE TO HAVE
GUNS?
IS HIS PROBLEM REALLY WITH THE
ATTEMPT TO KNOW WHO HAS THEM AND
WHO DOESN'T?
WHERE DOES HE COME FROM?
>> I THINK THAT CODY WOULD BE
HAPPY TO SEE MORE GUNS IN
AMERICANS' HANDS.
BUT HIS ULTIMATE GOAL, I
BELIEVE, AND HE TOLD ME IS THAT
THE DISSOLUTION OF THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT AND GOVERNMENTS
AROUND THE WORLD.
HE'S AN ANARCHIST AND A RADICAL
LIBERTARIAN.
I THINK HE SEES THIS EXERCISE OF
MAKING A GUN PRINTABLE AS KIND
OF A DEMONSTRATION OF WAYS THAT
THE TECHNOLOGY CAN CIRCUMVENT
THE LAW, CAN CIRCUMVENT TO MAKE
THE GOVERNMENT IRRELEVANT UNTIL
IT KIND OF DISAPPEARS OR AT
LEAST HE WANTS TO CARVE OUT A
KIND OF SPACE WHERE TECHNOLOGY
PREVENTS THE STATES' HANDS FROM
CONTROLLING WHAT PEOPLE DO.
I THINK HE'S ON HIS WAY WITH
THIS GUN.
>> Suarez: FROM WHAT YOU'VE
SEEN, THE FACT THAT IT'S
MAKEABLE BY THE USER, IT'S GOT
NO SERIAL NUMBER, IT'S GOT NO
KNOWN SIGNATURE TO LAW
ENFORCEMENT, NO BACKGROUND CHECK
NECESSARY, IS HE LIVING OUT HIS
DREAM JUST BY MAKING THIS
LIBERATOR?
>> I THINK HE'S ON HIS WAY.
JUST A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO
DEFENSE DISTRIBUTED, THIS GROUP,
WAS CREATED ON CREATING
MAGAZINES, AMMUNITION MAGAZINES
WHICH ARE A BOX WITH A SPRING
INSIDE OR COMPONENTS OF RIFLES.
NOW THEY'VE CREATED AN ENTIRELY
3D PRINTED GUN.
WE ONLY KNOW... THEY CAN ONLY
SPECULATE WHAT THEY'LL DO NEXT.
I THINK THAT THIS GUN IS GOING
TO BECOME MORE RESILIENT, MORE
USABLE OVER TIME AND MORE EASILY
ACCEPTABLE BY REGULAR PEOPLE
WITH JUST A CLICK AND A COUPLE
OF SWIPES OF A MOUSE.
>> Suarez: HE'S INSERTED A PIECE
OF METAL TO MAKE IT COMPLY WITH
CURRENT LAW.
BUT ISN'T THAT SOMETHING OF A
FIG LEAF?
DOES THIS KIND OF WEAPON, MINUS
THAT PIECE OF METAL WHICH
BECOMES OPTIONAL IF YOU'RE
MAKING IT AT HOME, MAKE GUN LAWS
OBSOLETE?
>> WELL, CODY IS VERY CLEVER.
HE'S A LAW STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS.
HIS STRATEGY HAS BEEN WHAT HE
CALLS OVERCOMPLIANCE.
HE WANTS TO DO WHAT HE'S DOING
IN AN ABSOLUTELY LEGAL WAY AND
YET ENABLE PEOPLE TO DO ILLEGAL
THINGS.
HE'S KIND OF UNTOUCHABLE AND HIS
STRATEGY HAS BEEN TO INSERT A
CHUNK OF STEEL INTO THE
PROTOTYPE.
THAT'S THE ONE HE'S BEEN TESTING
BUT IN FACT IF YOU PRINT IT AT
HOME THERE'S NO GUARANTEE OR
THERE'S NO NEED FOR YOU TO PUT
THAT METAL IN.
IT SERVES NO PURPOSE.
THERE IS A STEEL NAIL IN THE GUN
BUT YOU CAN BUY THAT AT ANY
HARDWARE STORE.
THERE'S THIS OTHER CHUNK OF THE
SIX-OUNCE CHUNK OF METAL THAT HE
INSERRED TO MAKE IT COMPLY WITH
THE UNDETECTABLE FIREARMS ACT.
THAT'S A FIG LEAF.
ANYONE WHO PRINTS IT AT OMAHAS
NO REQUIREMENTS TO INCLUDE THAT
METAL IN THE GUN AND RENDER IT
DETECTABLE BY METAL DETECTORS.
>> Suarez: ANDY GREENBURG OF
FORBES MAGAZINE, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
TURN TO POLAND, WHERE THERE'S A
FAMILIAR CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING
NEW ENERGY EXPLORATION.
OUR STORY IS PART OF A
COLLABORATION WITH THE PULITZER
CENTER ON CRISIS REPORTING, AND
COMES FROM SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
STEVE SAPIENZA.
Reporter: NORTHERN POLAND, A
RUSTIC REGION OF FRESH WATER
LAKES, FORESTS AND VILLAGES AND
THOUSANDS OF OF FEET
SURFACE A POTENTIAL FORTUNE IN
NATURAL GAS TRAPPED IN SHELL
ROCK.
ENERGY COMPANIES ARE ALREADY
DRILLING HERE.
USING HYDRAULIC FRACTURING OR
FRACKING, CONTROVERSIAL METHOD
OF GAS EXTRACTION IMPORTED FROM
THE UNITED STATES.
>> WE BELIEVE THAT THERE'S THE
CAPACITY TECHNOLOGICALLY TO
EXTRACT THAT GAS IN A WAY THAT
IS ENTIRELY SAFE.
WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS TO BE ABLE
TO SHARE OUR EXPERTISE AND
TECHNOLOGY WITH POLAND.
>> Reporter: SINCE 2010 A U.S.
STATE DEPARTMENT INITIATIVE HAS
QUIETLY PROMOTED THE DEVELOPMENT
OF SHALE GAS RESOURCES IN
COUNTRIES LIKE POLAND.
EXPLORATION DRILLING SITES LIKE
THIS ONE OFFER THE PROMISE OF A
SHALE GABOOMS  IN POLAND.
BUT MANY RESIDENTS WHO LIVE NEAR
THE DRILLING SITE FEEL THAT THE
GAS COMPANIES AND THEIR
GOVERNMENT HAVE LEFT EM OTHUT OF
THE DECISIONS THAT COULD
KREUSHLY IMPACT THEIR WAY OF
LIFE.
>> WE LIVE IN A SMALL RURAL
COMMUNITY.
BEHIND US THERE IS A NEW
INVESTMENT.
A GAS RIG.
>> Reporter: LAST JUNE THE
UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL OF DRILLING
OPERATORS SENSE LOCAL RESIDENTS
SCRAMBLING FOR INFORMATION.
>> WE DISCOVERED WHAT IT WAS
WHEN SOME WORKERS WHO WEREN'T
LOCAL STARTED BUILDING AN ACCESS
ROAD.
THERE WAS NO INFORMATION
PROVIDED TO US BY LOCAL
AUTHORITIES.
>> Reporter: ABOUT 30 ENERGY
COMPANIES, BOTH STATE-OWNED AND
INTERNATIONAL, ARE OPERATING IN
POLAND.
WHILE THE MAJORITY OF POLES
SUPPORT SHALE GAS EXPLORATION
RESIDENTS WHO LIVE NEAR THE
DRILLING SITE SAY THEY WANT IT
SAFELY EXTRACTED.
>> WE ARE NOT AGAINST SHALE GAS
BUT WE WANT TO ENFORCE THAT THE
COMPANY'S COMPLIANCE WITH OUR
LAWS AND TO ENSURE THAT THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING, THE WATER AND
THE ENVIRONMENT, ARE PRESERVED.
WE ARE GOING TO BE HERE LONG
AFTER THE COMNY IPAS GONE.
>> Reporter: HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING WAS DEVELOPED IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE PROCESS INVOLVES INJECTING
MILLIONS OF GALLONS OF WATER,
SAND AND CHEMICALS DEEP
UNDERGROUND TO FRACTURE THE
SHALE ROCK AND RELEASE THE GAS.
FRACKING IS CREDITED WITH
SPARKING A U.S. ENERGY BOOM
CREATING JOBS AND LOWERING
ENERGY PRICES.
YET THE PROCESS HASSLES RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT WATER
CONTAMINATION AND AIR POLLUTION
THAT ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION BY
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY.
IN EUROPE, FRANCE AND BULGARIA
HAVE BANNED FRACKING DUE TO
ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS.
THE POLISH GOVERNMENT RECENTLY
EASED DRILLING REGULATIONS.
ITS LACKING ON SHALE GAS TO
BOOST POLAND'S ECONOMY, REDUCE
DEPENDENCE ON RUSSIAN GAS
IMPORTS AND CUT ENERGY PRICES.
SO FAR EARLY EXPLORATION EFFORTS
IN NORTHERN POLAND HAVE BEEN MET
WITH RESISTANCE AND SUSPICION BY
LOCALS.
LAST AUGUST, A GAS COMPANY
SUBCONTRACTOR VISITED A MAN
SEEKING PERMISSION TO SURVEY FOR
SHALE GAS ON HIS 340-YEAR-OLD
FAMILY FARM.
>> HE LEFT SOME PAPERS WITH ME
TO SIGN.
THE TOP ONE WAS A BLANK FORM.
BUT I LOOKED AT THE ONE
UNDERNEATH WHICH HAD A
HANDWRITTEN NOTE ON IT.
ORAL PERMISSION GRANTED.
>> Reporter: HE SOON DISCOVERED
HIS NEIGHBORS HAD SIGNED THE
PAPERS CLAIMING THEY WERE
PROMISED FREE GAS AND OIL.
>> I GET GRANTS AS AN ORGANIC
FORMER FROM THE E.U.
HOW IS IT POSSIBLE FOR SOMEONE
TO DRILL WITH GAS ON LAND THAT
HAD BEEN CERTIFIED AS ORGANIC
AND DEAD IBLGHTED FOR ORGANIC
FARMING?
>> WORRIED THE FAMILY FARM WAS
HANGING IN THE BALANCE HE TOOK
HIS FRUSTRATIONS PUBLIC.
>> I GOT THIS IDEA TO USE A WALL
OF MY BARN TO PROTEST AGAINST
SHALE GAS EXPLORATION IN OUR
AREA.
I HAVE LOST FAITH IN
SELF-GOVERNANCE ON ALL LEVELS
WHETHER IT'S THE COUNTY, COUNTY
COUNCILS OR THE MAYORS.
THERE'S NO POINT IN VOTING
BECAUSE NOTHING HAS CHANGED
SINCE THE COMMUNIST ERA.
>> Reporter: IN ITS QUEST FOR
SHALE GAS POLAND HOPES TO
EMULATE THE U.S. MODEL BUT THERE
ARE BIG DIFFERENCES, SAYS ENERGY
EXPERT JOHN BANKS OF THE
BROOKINGS INSTITUTION.
>> YOU HAVE SOME VERY
SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
CONSTRAINTS TO TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF SHALE GAS IN A REGION SUCH AS
POLAND.
YOU ALSO HAVE DIFFERENCES WHERE
REGARD TO THE MINERAL RIGHTS.
>> Reporter: U.S. LAND OWNERS
OWN THE RIGHTS TO THE GAS AND
OIL BELOW THEIR LAND.
NOT SO IN POLAND WHERE THE STATE
OWNS EVERYTHING 50 CENTIMETERS
AND BELOW.
>> IF YOU DON'T OWN THE MINERAL
RIGHTS THEN YOU DON'T HAVE AS
MUCH SKIN IN THE GAME.
THEREFORE YOU MIGHT BE MORE
INCLINE TO NOT PROMOTE OR
SUPPORT SHALE GAS DEVELOPMENT.
>> Reporter: THE GAS DRILLING IS
300 METERS FROM THIS FARMER'S
FIELD.
>> WE LIVE IN AN ELEVATED AREA.
THE SOIL IS VERY WEAK AND
PERMEABLE.
WE OFTEN EXPERIENCE DROUGHTS.
>> Reporter: FRACKING TYPICALLY
USES BETWEEN 5 MILLION GALLONS
OF WATER PER WELL.
>> I SUSPECT WE'LL HAVE A VERY
SERIOUS PROBLEM.
I KEEP LOOKING AT THIS HORRIBLE
RIG AND WONDER IT WILL POSE A
THREAT TO US.
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE ASSURANCES
FROM THE GOVERNMENT THAT WE ARE
GOING TO BE COMPENSATED IN CASE
OF SOME ECOLOGICAL DISASTER THAT
WILL IMPACT OUR LIVELIHOODS.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
SHOULD A DRILLING ACCIDENT
OCCUR, LOCAL RESIDENTS HAVE THE
RIGHTO ST UE THE DRILLING
COMPANY.
>> THE FARMER HAS THE ABILITY TO
DEFEND HIS RIGHTS IN THE COURT.
SOMETIMES IT WILL FIND ITS WAY
TO COURT.
BUT THAT'S DEMOCRACY, RIGHT.
>> Reporter: THE POLISH
GOVERNMENT SEES A FUTURE WHERE
SHALE GAS REVENUES FILL STATE
AND LOCAL COFERS AND POLISH
CONSUMERS HAVE LOWER ENERGY
BILLS.
>> THE POLISH ECONOMY WILL MAKE
MONEY BY REDUCING GAS PRICES
THANKS TO NATIONAL PRODUCTION.
>> Reporter: POLISH RESIDENTS
HAVE SEEN LITTLE DIRECT BENEFIT
FROM THE DRILLING RIGS IN THEIR
MIDST.
>> WE ARE VERY SKEPTICAL ABOUT
ANY POTENTIAL BENEFITS TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
THEY PROMISED EMPLOYMENT, BUT
EVERYBODY REALIZES THAT ONLY
EXPERT WORKERS WITH SPECIAL
TRAINING CAN BE EMPLOYED HERE.
>> Reporter: GAS COMPANIES HAVE
JUST STARTED TO EXPLORE
CONCESSIONS THAT COVER NEARLY
ONE THIRD OF POLAND'S TERRITORY.
THIS ALL BUT GUARANTEES MORE
POLISH CITIZENS WILL COME INTO
CONTACT WITH GAS EXPLORATION
EFFORTS IN THE YEARS TO COME.
IN POLAND YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A
MUCH MORE DENSELY POPULATED AREA
AS OPPOSED TO, SAY, SOME OF THE
BASINS IN THE WESTERN PART OF
THE UNITED STATES.
I THINK YOU WILL FIND THAT
HAVING A BIG IMPACT ON THE
PROGRESS OF SHALE GAS
PRODUCTION.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE COUNTRY SO
LONG HISTORY WITHIN THE SHALE
GAS OPERATION AND EVEN
EXPLORATION.
SO THIS PART OF THE PROCESS
SHOULD BE TREATED WITH EXTREME
CAUTION.
>> Reporter: IF EXPLORATION IS
TO POF FORWARD, DRILLING
OPERATORS WILL NEED THE SUPPORT
OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
SAYS, THE SPOKESPERSON FOR THE
SHALE GAS DRILLING OPERATORS IN
POLAND.
>> THERE ARE PLENTY OF MYTHS
THAT ARE CIRCULATED AMONG THE
LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
AND THE GOAL OF THE OPERATORS
SHOULD BE TO DISPEL SUCH MYTHS
AND TO GIVE THE REAL PICTURE OF
HOW FRACKING WORKS.
THAT MAYBE THE AMOUNT OF
CHEMICALS USED DURING THE
FRACTURING IS NOT THAT
SIGNIFICANT.
MAYBE THE SUBSTANCES USED DURING
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING ARE NOT
THAT DANGEROUS AS SOME OF THE
MATERIALS THROUGHOUT THE
INTERNET TRY TOSHOW .
>> Reporter: FOR NOW, THE POLISH
GOVERNMENT AND GAS DRILLERS FACE
THE CHALLENGE OF PURSUING
VALUABLE ENERGY DEEP IN THE
EARTH WITHOUT FUELING DISSENT
ABOVE GROUND.
>> Brown: THAT REPORT WAS A
COLLABORATION WITH THE PULITZER
CENTER ON CRISIS
>> Brown: THAT REPORT WAS A
COLLABORATION WITH THE PULITZER
CENTER ON CRISIS REPORTING AND
CALKINS MEDIA.
YOU'LL FIND A LINK TO THEIR
SCIALPE REPORT ON THIS ISSUE ON
OUR WEB SITE.
>> Suarez: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ISRAEL SOUGHT TO PLAY DOWN
TENSIONS WITH SYRIA AFTER A
WEEKEND OF AIR STRIKES AROUND
DAMASCUS.
THE SYRIANS THREATENED
RETALIATION.
AND THE U.S. SENATE MOVED TO LET
STATES CHARGE SALES TAX FOR
PURCHASES MADE ONLINE.
THE MEASURE FACES UNCERTAIN
PROSPECTS IN THE HOUSE.
>> Brown: ONLINE, HOW A YOUNG
DETROITER IS TACKLING A SERIOUS
ISSUE IN HER CITY AND BEYOND.
HARI SREENIVASAN TELLS US MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: ARMED WITH ONLY
A FEW SEWING MACHINES, 23-YEAR-
OLD VERONIKA SCOTT SET OUT TO
HELP THE HOMELESS IN HER
COMMUNITY.
TODAY, HER BUSINESS EMPLOYS 10
FORMERLY HOMELESS WOMEN WHO MAKE
COATS THAT ALSO DOUBLE AS A
SLEEPING BAG.
READ MORE ABOUT HER IN OUR
SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP SERIES.
AND FOR A PRIMER ON TOMORROW'S
SPECIAL HOUSE ELECTION IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, POLITICAL EDITOR
CHRISTINA BELLANTONI CHATTED
WITH JON WARD OF THE HUFFINGTON
POST.
WATCH THAT CONVERSATION IN THE
RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
REPORTING TELL
US HOW WATERGATE IMPACTED YOUR
LIFE OR CHANGED THE WAY YOU SAW
GOVERNMENT OR THE MEDIA.
CALL OUR ORAL HISTORY HOT LINE
AT 202-599-4PBS OR GO TO OUR
HOME PAGE FOR DETAILS ON HOW TO
LEAVE YOUR MESSAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
IMPACT OF ACROSS-THE-BOARD
BUDGET CUTS AROUND THE COUNTRY.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.